hello howdy there internet people let's
bow again so tonight we're going to talk
about a single line out of a song that
has become a touchstone it's become
something that pretty much everybody's
heard they may not even know it came
from a song but they've heard this one
sentence they've probably seen it on
memes maybe even heard it in movies
because it's referenced a lot but
because of that because how it was used
in the memes and in popular culture some
of the meaning may be lost
now it gets shown most times as a battle
cry as a way of saying that network news
is censoring things and therefore the
revolution will not be televised but
that may not have been what the author
meant now we have that idea that once
something enters public consumption once
it's out there it can be interpreted
however the public wants and that's fair
game and that's true it's a concept
called the the death of the author but
normally when we invoke that we can't
actually ask the person that wrote it
and in this case we could and somebody
did so we actually know what he meant
the revolution will not be televised gil
scott-heron if you haven't heard it yet
stop now and go ahead and listen to it
and then come back you'll notice the
first two lines you will not be able to
stay home brother you will not be able
to plug in turn on and cop-out that's a
play on words right there that's fine
from those first two lines you realize
that it's not really that it won't be
televised it's that you're not gonna be
home you're gonna be participating in
the revolution live you're gonna be out
there doing it that's what it's saying
just in those first two lines you can
pick that up yes there's definitely a
whole bunch of stuff that follows us
that speaks to the way the powers that
be the establishment frame things and
control a narrative but the real message
here may not be that censorship is is
the problem not necessarily because when
he was asked he said the first change
that takes place is in your mind you
have to change your mind before you
change the way you live and the way you
move the thing that's going to change
people is something that nobody will
ever be able to capture on film it's
just something that you see and you'll
think oh I'm on the wrong page or I'm on
the right page but the wrong note and
I've got to get in sync with everyone
else to find out what's happening in
this country it's not that the media is
going to censor the revolution it's that
we're gonna ignore the media that we're
not going to buy into the narrative
we're not going to play red team versus
blue team we're not going to allow the
establishment to control our thoughts
and take control of that narrative and
hi jacket and get it to where everybody
gets angry for a few weeks and then
everybody goes back to the status quo
because that's normally what they want
you ignore it you change the people get
in sync man that seems really really
relevant right now if you want real
change if you want revolution it's going
to occur with us we're going to evolve
we're gonna get on the same page we're
gonna move in the same direction and we
are going to change things and it
doesn't matter what the establishment
thinks it doesn't matter what the
narratives in the news are because we're
plugged in to each other we're
communicating with each other we're
doing it live anyway it's just a thought
y'all have a good night